# Using NLP to Study for Jeopardy!

## Background

One of the passtimes I got into over the pandemic was watching *Jeopardy!*. It started with old episodes on Netflix, but once taping of new episodes resumed, I became a regular viewer in time to catch the recent legends like Matt Amodio and Amy Schneider.

As all *Jeopary!* enthusiasts are prone to do, I thought to myself, "I bet I could do that if I put my mind to it." I had enough sense to know I'd get crushed on regular *Jeopardy!*, but I decided to take the test for the college tournament. I ended up scoring well enough to qualify for a follow-up test, which I in turn did well enough on to be invited to a "live" (held over Zoom) audition for the college tournament. Making it to this stage meant that I'd be in the pool of potential contestants for the next 12-18 months. All there was left to do was wait for "The Call," which may or may not ever come.

Making it to that point was both exciting and terrfying. If making it past the first test made it easy to feel good about all the things I knew, getting to be a phone call away from actually being on *Jeopardy!* made it easy to fixate on all the things I knew nothing about. I didn't know much poetry and hadn't read much Shakespeare. I could name most of the "Best Picture" winners from my lifetime but would draw a blank on any from before about 2000. If there was a chance of actually getting to be a contestant, I'd have to do some serious practice.

Around the same time, I came across a Reddit thread linking to this Medium article by Colin Davy: [How I Won Jeopardy With Data Science](https://colindavy.medium.com/how-i-won-jeopardy-with-data-science-c2e9b52a1958). In the article, Davy describes getting the "The Call" to appear on *Jeopardy!* with only about two weeks to prepare. Rather than reading through past questions one-by-one on [J! Archive](j-archive.com), Davy used Python to scrape 400,000 past questions and answers from the site. He then identified the most common answers to questions in areas he as weakest in (e.g. the Bible) and used natural language processing (NLP) to strip each question down to its most important words. Those words could then form word clouds, each of which would be associated with a common answer. This way, Davy could learn what words and topics to associate with different answers that often come up on the show. For example, this approach taught him that any clue referencing a "wise king" was probably referring to King Solomon.

I thought this approach was clever, and as a Statistics major with some coding and data science experience, I thought I could replicate it pretty easily. Although my background included more R than Python, I was still able to write a script that generated word clouds for topics commonly occuring on College *Jeopardy!*. I unfortunately never actually got The Call, but this project still gave me good exposure to NLP and vastly expanded my reserves of random knowledge.
